# Spectral Vegetation Indices
A spectral vegetation index (SVI) is generated by combining data from multiple 
spectral bands into a single value. Usually simple algebraic formulations, 
SVIs are designed to enhance the vegetation signal in remotely sensed data 
and provide an approximate measure of live, green vegetation amount.



## Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI)
NDVI stands for Normalized Difference Vegetation Index, which is the common
measurement for the greenness of vegetation. In remote sensing, NDVI is used as an indicator for
the greenness measurement in vegetation and shows the difference in the response of vegetation
between red light and the near-infrared wavelengths.

Tucker (1979) proposed the NDVI index as an index for the diagnosis and detection of the
healthiness and density of vegetation, which has since been used for the estimation of biomass,
Leaf Area Index (LAR), plant production, the green cover identification, and land changes.

Chlorophyll, pigments and the intercellular structure of leaves in green vegetation absorb the
red spectra and reflect highly the Near-Infrared (NIR) spectra. In fact, NDVI is the normalized
difference between the red (R) band and the Near-Infrared (NIR) band. NDVI is well correlated
with green leaf biomass; it is positively dependent upon green leaf biomass or Leaf Area Index
(LAI). Water stresses such as drought decrease the contrast while the high quantity and quality of
plants increases this ratio (Thenkabail et al. 2004)

Because of the normalization of the ratio between two bands, NDVI has some advantages,
such as the reduction of the atmosphere effects, the correction of topography effects, and the
correction of the solar radiation variations (Guyot and Gu 1994). Nevertheless, in some areas
like drylands, the interaction between soil and vegetation are not resolved, such as mixed pixels.

The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) is an indicator of the greenness of the biomes. 
As such, it is closely linked to the [FAPAR](https://land.copernicus.eu/global/products/fapar).

[Reference](http://othes.univie.ac.at/14090/1/2011-02-03_0549582.pdf)


### Vegetation Condition Index (VCI)
The Vegetation Condition Index (VCI) compares the current NDVI to the range of values 
observed in the same period in previous years. 
The VCI is expressed in % and gives an idea where the observed value is situated 
between the extreme values (minimum and maximum) in the previous years. 
Lower and higher values indicate bad and good vegetation state conditions, respectively.

Reference https://land.copernicus.eu/global/products/vci


### Vegetation Health Index (VHI)
Vegetation Health Index (VHI) is based on Temperature Condition Index (TCI) and Vegetation
Condition Index (VCI), even though there is no significant correlation between TCI and VCI.
However, each index provides additional information about land surface. In other words,
Temperature Condition Index (TCI) provides information about the thermal properties of land
surface, and Vegetation Condition Index (VCI) also indicates the status of vegetation. The
integration of these two indices is defined as Vegetation Health Condition (VHI).
The integration of these indexes is necessary to evaluate land surface temperature and the vegetation
canopy status. 

In the affected areas the quality of vegetation decreases due to erosion and drought.
Therefore, the health of the vegetation is a practical indicator to detect land degradation. The
index has many advantages such giving information about the reduction of climatic and
temporal noise in time series data and the fluctuations of NDVI and LST independent to
weather conditions.

### Vegetation Productivity Index (VPI)
The Vegetation Productivity Index (VPI) assesses the overall vegetation condition 
by referencing the current value of the NDVI with the long-term statistics for 
the same period. The VPI is a percentile ranking of the current NDVI value against 
its historical range of variability: values of 0%, 50% and 100% respectively 
indicate that the current observation corresponds with the historical minimum 
(worst vegetation state), median (normal) or maximum (best situation) ever observed.

Reference https://land.copernicus.eu/global/products/vpi


Since the VCI & VPI are NDVI-derived products, their quality depends entirely on the quality 
of the NDVI and the length of the historical time series available. 
In particular, they are sensitive to cloud contamination in the original NDVI dataset. 
This may lead to a below normal value which is not due to low vegetation activity. 
Because of this, it is important to consider successive dekades to see if the 
trend on the considered area persists, as it can be seen on the temporal profiles below.



### References
[1] [Vegetation Condition Indices for Crop Vegetation Condition Monitoring](https://www.nass.usda.gov/Education_and_Outreach/Reports,_Presentations_and_Conferences/Presentations/Yang_IGARSS11_VegeConditionMonitoring.pdf)

[2] [The Use of Remote Sensing to Evaluate and Detect Desert Regions](http://othes.univie.ac.at/14090/1/2011-02-03_0549582.pdf)







